{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22000}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs36\lang9              Assignments - 7th April\par
\fs22\par
\fs28 1. What is Computer Network?\par
\fs22 Ans- A computer network is a set of computers sharing resources located on or provided by network nodes. The computers use common communication protocols over digital interconnections to communicate with each other. A computer network is a set of computers sharing resources located on or provided by network nodes. The computers use common communication protocols over digital interconnections to communicate with each other. \par
\fs28 2. Types of CN?\par
\fs22 Ans- A computer network is mainly of four types:\par
       1) LAN(Local Area Network)\par
       2) PAN(Personal Area Network)\par
       3) MAN(Metropolitan Area Network)\par
       4) WAN(Wide Area Network)\par
\fs28 3. What is an IP address?\par
\fs22 Ans- An IP address, or Internet Protocol address, is a series of numbers that identifies any device on a network. Computers use IP addresses to communicate with each other both over the internet as well as on other networks.\par
\fs28 4. What is IPV4 and IPV6?\par
\fs22 Ans- 1) The Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4) is a protocol for use on packet-switched Link Layer               networks (e.g. Ethernet)\par
     2) IPv4 provides an addressing capability of approximately 4.3 billion addresses.\par
     3) The Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) is more advanced and has better features compared to IPv4.\par
     4) It has the capability to provide an infinite number of addresses\par
     5) IPv4 uses four 1 byte decimal numbers, separated by a dot (i.e. 192.168.1.1)\par
     6) IPv6 uses hexadecimal numbers that are separated by colons (i.e. fe80::d4a8:6435:d2d8:d9f3b11). \par
\par
\fs28 5. What are softwares?\par
\fs22 Ans- Software is a collection of instructions that tell a computer how to work. This is in contrast to hardware, from which the system is built and which actually performs the work.\par
\fs28 6. Differet Types of Softwares?\par
\fs22 Ans- Types of Software\par
          Application Software.\par
          System Software.\par
          Firmware.\par
          Programming Software.\par
          Driver Software.\par
          Freeware.\par
          Shareware.\par
          Open Source Software. \par
\par
\fs36  Assignments - 8th April\par
\fs22\par
\fs28 1. What is a Database?\par
\fs22 Ans- In computing, a database is an organized collection of data stored and accessed electronically. Small databases can be stored on a file system, while large databases are hosted on computer clusters or cloud storage.\par
\fs28 2. What is DBMS?\par
\fs22 Ans- A database management system (or DBMS) is essentially nothing more than a computerized data-keeping system. Users of the system are given facilities to perform several kinds of operations on such a system for either manipulation of the data in the database or the management of the database structure itself.\par
\fs28 3. Types of DBMS?\par
\fs22 Ans- 1) hierarchical database systems.\par
     2) network database systems.\par
     3) object-oriented database systems.\par
\fs28 4. What is Client Server Architecture?\par
\fs22 Ans- lient-server architecture, architecture of a computer network in which many clients (remote processors) request and receive service from a centralized server (host computer). Client computers provide an interface to allow a computer user to request services of the server and to display the results the server returns.\par
\par
\fs36 Assignments - 9th April\par
\fs22\par
\fs28 1. What is a software bug?\par
\fs22 Ans- A software bug is an error, flaw or fault in computer software that causes it to produce an incorrect or unexpected result, or to behave in unintended ways. The process of finding and correcting bugs is termed "debugging" and often uses formal techniques or tools to pinpoint bugs.\par
\fs28 2. What is Middlware?\par
\fs22 Ans- Middleware is software which lies between an operating system and the applications running on it. Essentially functioning as hidden translation layer, middleware enables communication and data management for distributed applications.\par
\fs28 3. What is a webserver?\par
\fs22 Ans- A web server stores and delivers the content for a website \f1\endash  such as text, images, video, and application data \endash  to clients that request it. The most common type of client is a web browser program, which requests data from your website when a user clicks on a link or downloads a document on a page displayed in the browser.\par
A web server is computer software and underlying hardware that accepts requests via HTTP or its secure variant HTTPS.\par
\fs28 4. What is a Application server?\par
\fs22 Ans- It is a type of server designed to install, operate and host associated services and applications for the IT services, end users and organizations. The Example of Application Servers are: JBoss: Open-source server from JBoss community. Glassfish: Provided by Sun Microsystem.\par
\fs28 5. What is a Load Balancer?\par
\fs22 Ans- In computing, load balancing refers to the process of distributing a set of tasks over a set of resources, with the aim of making their overall processing more efficient. Load balancing can optimize the response time and avoid unevenly overloading some compute nodes while other compute nodes are left idle.\par
\fs28 6. What is 2-Tier Architecture?\par
\fs22 Ans- A two-tier architecture is a software architecture in which a presentation layer or interface runs on a client, and a data layer or data structure gets stored on a server. Separating these two components into different locations represents a two-tier architecture, as opposed to a single-tier architecture. Other kinds of multi-tier architectures add additional layers in distributed software design.\par
\fs28 7. What is 3-Tier Architecture?\par
\fs22 Ans- A three-tier architecture is a client-server architecture in which the functional process logic, data access, computer data storage and user interface are developed and maintained as independent modules on separate platforms\f0\lang16393 .\par
\f1\lang9 Three-tier architecture is a software design pattern and a well-established software architecture.\par
\fs28 8. What is n-Tier Architecture?\par
\fs22 Ans- N-tier architecture is a client-server architecture concept in software engineering where the presentation, processing and data management functions are both logically and physically separated. These functions are each running on a separate machine or separate clusters so that each is able to provide the services at top capacity since there is no resource sharing. This separation makes managing each separately easier since doing work on one does not affect the others, isolating any problems that might occur.\par
N-tier architecture is also known as multi-tier architecture.\par
\par
\fs36 Assignments -- 11th April\par
\fs22\par
\fs28 1.What is a protocol?\par
\fs22 Ans- A protocol is a set of rules and guidelines for communicating data. Rules are defined for each step and process during communication between two or more computers. Networks have to follow these rules to successfully transmit data.\par
\fs28 2. What is OSI Model?\par
\fs22 Ans- The Open Systems Interconnection model is a conceptual model that describes the universal standard of communication functions of a telecommunication system or computing system, without any regard to the system's underlying internal technology and specific protocol suites.\par
\fs28 3. What is TCP/IP Model?\par
\fs22 Ans- The Internet protocol suite, commonly known as TCP/IP, is the set of communications protocols used in the Internet and similar computer networks. The current foundational protocols in the suite are the Transmission Control Protocol and the Internet Protocol, as well as the User Datagram Protocol.\par
\f0\fs28\lang16393 4. \f1\lang9 What is http?\par
\fs22 Ans: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-layer protocol for transmitting hypermedia documents, such as HTML.\par
\f0\fs28\lang16393 5. \f1\lang9 What is https?\par
\fs22 Ans: HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure) is an internet communication protocol that protects the integrity and confidentiality of data between the user's computer and the site. \par
\f0\fs28\lang16393 6. \f1\lang9 What is SSL?\par
\fs22 Ans: SSL stands for Secure Sockets Layer and, in short, it's the standard technology for keeping an internet connection secure and safeguarding any sensitive data that is being sent between two systems, preventing criminals from reading and modifying any information transferred, including potential personal details.\par
\f0\fs28\lang16393 7. \f1\lang9 What is Encryption?\par
\fs22 Ans: Encryption is a means of securing data by encoding it mathematically such that it can only be read, or decrypted, by those with the correct key or cipher\par
\f0\fs28\lang16393 8. \f1\lang9 What is Decryption?\par
\fs22 Ans: The conversion of encrypted data into its original form is called Decryption. It is generally a reverse process of encryption.\par
\f0\fs28\lang16393 9. \f1\lang9 What is DNS?\par
\fs22 Ans: The Domain Name System (DNS) turns domain names into IP addresses, which browsers use to load internet pages. Every device connected to the internet has its own IP address, which is used by other devices to locate the device.\par
\f0\fs28\lang16393 10. \f1\lang9 What is a Router?\par
\fs22 Ans: A router takes data packets from devices and directs them to the right place. Routers often use IP addresses to know where to look for information. \par
 Routers allow your computers to access the internet or request files from a server. It also makes sure that information goes back to the device that requested it\par
\f0\fs28\lang16393 11. \f1\lang9 What is ISP and what do they do?\par
\fs22 Ans: Internet service provider (ISP), company that provides Internet connections and services to individuals and organizations. In addition to providing access to the Internet, \par
ISPs may also provide software packages (such as browsers), e-mail accounts, and a personal Web site or\f0\lang16393   home page.\f1\lang9\par
\f0\lang16393                               \fs36\par
\f1\lang9 Assignments -- 1\f0\lang16393 2\f1\lang9 th April\par
\fs22\par
\fs28 1. What is Localhost? \par
\fs22 Ans: A localhost is the standard host name provided to the address of the local computer in computer networking. \par
     The localhost denotes the host name used in communicating with the loopback network interface\par
\fs28 2. What is 127.0.0.1 Ip address? \par
\fs22 Ans: 127.0.0.1 is the loopback Internet protocol (IP) address and also referred to as the \ldblquote localhost.\rdblquote  \par
     The address is used to establish an IP connection to the same machine or computer being used by the end-user. \par
     Establishing a connection using the address 127.0.0.1 is the most common practice.\par
\fs28 3. What do you mean by loopback?\par
\fs22 Ans: Loopback is the routing of electronic signals or digital data streams back to their source without intentional processing or modification. \par
     It is primarily a means of testing the communications infrastructure. \par
\fs28 4. What is a Port? What are reserved ports?\par
\fs22 Ans: A port in networking is a software-defined number associated to a network protocol that receives or transmits communication for a specific service.\par
\f0\fs28\lang16393 5.\f1\lang9 What are reserved ports?\par
\fs22  RESERVED ports does indicates that the port is not available for use by any user. Port numbers from 0 to 1023 are reserved for common TCP/IP applications.\par
\f0\fs28\lang16393 6\f1\lang9 .What port is reserved for http? \fs22\par
Ans: HTTP Port-80 is used for HTTP (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol) connection by default. It is a popular and widely used port across the globe.\par
\f0\fs28\lang16393 7\f1\lang9 .What port is reserved for https? \par
\fs22 Ans: HTTPS connections use TCP port 443\par
\par
\f0\fs36\lang16393 Assignments -- 13th April\par
\fs28\par
1.What is the difference between IP address and Mac Address?\par
\fs22 Ans: The main difference between MAC and IP address is that MAC Address is used to ensure the physical address of the computer. It uniquely identifies the devices on a network. \par
     While IP addresses are used to uniquely identifies the connection of the network with that device takes part in a network.\par
\fs28 2.What is the default port for Apache?\par
\fs22 Ans: HTTP port 80\par
\fs28 3.What is JDK?\par
\fs22 Ans: JDK is a development environment for building applications, applets, and components using           the Java programming language. \par
 The JDK includes tools useful for developing and testing programs written in the Java programming language and running on the Java platform.\par
\fs28 4.What is JRE?\par
\fs22 Ans: The Java Runtime Environment, or JRE, is a software layer that runs on top of a computer\rquote s operating system software and provides the class libraries and other resources that a specific Java program needs to run.\fs36\par
\par
 Assignments -- 14th April\par
\fs22\par
\fs28 1. What is a Data Center?\par
\fs22 A data center or data centre is a building, a dedicated space within a building, or a group of buildings used to house computer systems and associated components, such as telecommunications and storage systems\par
\fs28 2. What are the different types environments discussed in the class?\par
\fs22 The core elements of a data center are host, storage, connectivity (or network), applications, and DBMS that are managed centrally. These elements work together to process and store data. With the evolution of virtualization, data centers have also evolved from a classic data center to a virtualized data center (VDC).\par
\fs28 3. What are the different operations teams discussed in the class?\par
\fs22 Company's operations team are people that ensure customers' satisfaction and happiness while providing the services that they need. They are those responsible for the aspect that company's hard-earned customers are taken care of.\par
\fs28 4. Who are Deployment/Build engineers?\par
\fs22 A Deployment Engineer is responsible for the deployment of releases into the production environment. A Deployment Engineer is responsible for the safe deployment of one or more releases into the production environment.\par
\fs28 5. What kind of work is done by developers?\par
\fs22 Software developers design and create software programs for a variety of computer systems. Different types of programs require unique programming languages, so many professionals in this career might specialize in a certain coding language. Software developers' work varies depending on their employer.\par
\fs28 6. What kind of work is done by testers?\par
\fs22 The key function of a Tester is to conduct both manual and automated tests of software products. No matter what company they work for, their ongoing goal is to reduce the number of bugs in software and identify as many mistakes as possible.\par
Change the tomcat port to 9999, 7777, 8888 and test.\fs36\par
\par
  Assignments -- 15th April\par
\fs22\par
\fs28 1. What is a Java Archive file?\par
\fs22 JAR (Java Archive) is a platform-independent file format that aggregates many files into one. Multiple Java applets and their requisite components (. class files, images and sounds) can be bundled in a JAR file and subsequently downloaded to a browser in a single HTTP transaction, greatly improving the download speed.\par
\fs28 2. What do you mean by compiling a code?\par
\fs22 Compile refers to the act of converting programs written in high level programming language, which is understandable and written by humans, into a low level binary language understood only by the computer.\par
\fs28 3. What happens when you compile a code?\par
\fs22 Compile refers to the act of converting programs written in high level programming language, which is understandable and written by humans, into a low level binary language understood only by the computer.\par
\fs28 4. What are jar, war, ear files and their differences?\par
\fs22 An EAR (Enterprise Archive) file merges JAR and WAR files into a single archive. These files with the '. ear' extension have a directory for metadata. The modules are packaged into on archive for smooth and simultaneous operation of the different modules within an app server.\par
A WAR file may be digitally signed in the same way as a JAR file in order to allow others to determine where the source code came from.\par
WAR stands for Web Application Archive or Web Application Resource. These archive files have the . war extension and are used to package web applications that we can deploy on any Servlet/JSP container.\par
\fs36\par
  Assignments -- 16th April\par
\par
\fs28 1. How do you deploy a war file on tomcat server?\par
\fs22 Copy and paste. Perhaps the simplest way to deploy a WAR file to Tomcat is to copy the file to Tomcat's webapps directory. Copy and paste WAR files into Tomcat's webapps directory to deploy them. Tomcat monitors this webapps directory for changes, and if it finds a new file there, it will attempt to deploy it.\par
\fs28 2. How do you access a custom html file from tomcat server?\par
\fs22 Create a folder named "tomcat6-myapp" in /usr/share.\par
Create a folder "myapp" under /usr/share/tomcat6-myapp.\par
Copy the HTML file (that I need to deploy) to /usr/share/tomcat6-myapp/myapp. ...\par
Go to /etc/tomcat6/Catalina/localhost.\par
Create an xml file "myapp.\par
\par
  \fs36 Assignments -- 18th April\par
\fs22\par
\fs28 1. What is virtualization?\par
\fs22 Virtualization is technology that lets you create useful IT services using resources that are traditionally bound to hardware. It allows you to use a physical machine's full capacity by distributing its capabilities among many users or environments.\par
\fs24 Types of virtualization\fs22\par
-Desktop virtualization\par
-Network virtualization\par
-Storage virtualization\par
-Data virtualization\par
-Application virtualization\par
-Data center virtualization\par
-CPU virtualization\par
-GPU virtualization\par
-Linux virtualization\par
-Cloud virtualization\par
\fs28 2. Download and install VMware Workstation player?\par
3. Set Virtualization to enabled or ON on your laptop or desktop.\par
4. Download Ubuntu ISO image.\par
\fs22\par
     \fs36 Assignments -- 19th April\par
\fs22\par
\fs28 1. Create windows VM on VMware\fs36\par
\par
  Assignments -- 20th April \par
\fs28 1. Who manages the port?\par
\fs22 OS \par
\fs28 2. Who manages IP address in a network?\par
\fs22 switch\par
\fs28 3. What is a Hypervisor?\par
\fs22 A hypervisor is the software layer that coordinates VMs. It serves as an interface between the VM and the underlying physical hardware, ensuring that each has access to the physical resources it needs to execute. It also ensures that the VMs don\rquote t interfere with each other by impinging on each other\rquote s memory space or compute cycles.\par
There are two types of hypervisors:\par
\fs28 Type 1 or \ldblquote bare-metal\rdblquote  hypervisors \fs22 interact with the underlying physical resources, replacing the traditional operating system altogether. They most commonly appear in virtual server scenarios.\par
\fs28 Type 2 hypervisors \fs22 run as an application on an existing OS. Most commonly used on endpoint devices to run alternative operating systems, they carry a performance overhead because they must use the host OS to access and coordinate the underlying hardware resources.\par
\fs28 4. What are the pre-requisites for intsllating a Hypervisor?\par
5. What are the steps required to create a VM?\par
6. What are the drawbacks of Hypervisor?\par
\fs22 Parent OS crash can crash all the VMs\par
Overhead of frequent security and OS updates.\par
Prior to using Hyper-V primary OS must be installed.\par
Service templates don\rquote t have much support.\fs36\par
\par
 Assignments -- 21st April\par
\fs22\par
\fs28 1. What is cloud?\par
\fs22 "The cloud" refers to servers that are accessed over the Internet, and the software and databases that run on those servers. Cloud servers are located in data centers all over the world. By using cloud computing, users and companies do not have to manage physical servers themselves or run software applications on their own machines.\par
\fs28 2. What is the difference between Cloud and Internet?\par
\fs24 Internet:\tab\par
\fs22 1.  \tab The internet is a network of networks that encompasses all internet services.\par
2.  \tab The internet had its first use as far back as the 1960s.\par
3. \tab The internet is not dependent on Cloud commuting for its operations.\par
4.\tab The internet provides software/hardware infrastructure to establish and maintain       connectivity all over the globe.\tab\par
5.\tab The internet consists of different other internet services such as chat rooms, voice over  internet protocols (VoIP), etc.\tab\par
6. \tab The internet is free.\tab\par
\par
\fs24 Cloud computing: \fs22\par
1.\tab computing is an internet service that allows the accessing, processing, and storage of data.\par
2.\tab Cloud computing is a new technology that surfaced in the 2000s\par
3.\tab Cloud computing is dependent on the internet for its operations\par
4.\tab Cloud computing is a software infrastructure on the internet.\par
5.\tab Cloud computing is an internet service itself.\par
6.\tab Cloud computing has a pay-as-you-go model that allows users to get more access to internet service.\par
\fs28 3. What are the 2 models available in Cloud?\par
4. What is a service model?\par
\fs22 There are the following three types of cloud service models -\par
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)\par
Platform as a Service (PaaS)\par
Software as a Service (SaaS)\par
\fs28 5. What is a deployment model?\par
\fs22 There are four cloud deployment models: public, private, community, and hybrid. Each deployment model is defined according to where the infrastructure for the environment is located.\par
\fs28 6. what is IAAS, Explain?\par
\fs22 IaaS is also known as Hardware as a Service (HaaS). It is a computing infrastructure managed over the internet. The main advantage of using IaaS is that it helps users to avoid the cost and complexity of purchasing and managing the physical servers.\par
Characteristics of IaaS\par
Resources are available as a service\par
Services are highly scalable\par
Dynamic and flexible\par
GUI and API-based access\par
Automated administrative tasks\par
Example: DigitalOcean, Linode, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Compute Engine (GCE), Rackspace, and Cisco Metacloud.\par
\fs28 7. What is PAAS, Explain?\par
\fs22 PaaS cloud computing platform is created for the programmer to develop, test, run, and manage the applications.\par
Characteristics of PaaS\par
Accessible to various users via the same development application.\par
Integrates with web services and databases.\par
Builds on virtualization technology, so resources can easily be scaled up or down as per the organization's need.\par
Support multiple languages and frameworks.\par
Provides an ability to "Auto-scale".\par
Example: AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Windows Azure, Heroku, Force.com, Google App Engine, Apache Stratos, Magento Commerce Cloud, and OpenShift.\par
\fs28 8. What is SAAS, Explain?\par
\fs22 SaaS is also known as "on-demand software". It is a software in which the applications are hosted by a cloud service provider. Users can access these applications with the help of internet connection and web browser.\par
Characteristics of SaaS\par
Managed from a central location\par
Hosted on a remote server\par
Accessible over the internet\par
Users are not responsible for hardware and software updates. Updates are applied automatically.\par
The services are purchased on the pay-as-per-use basis\par
Example: BigCommerce, Google Apps, Salesforce, Dropbox, ZenDesk, Cisco WebEx, ZenDesk, Slack, and GoToMeeting\par
\fs28 9. What are the advantages of Cloud?\par
\fs22 Reduced IT costs. Moving to cloud computing may reduce the cost of managing and maintaining your IT systems. \par
Scalability. \par
Business continuity. \par
Collaboration efficiency. \par
Flexibility of work practices. \par
Access to automatic updates\par
\fs28 10. What is a private cloud?\par
\fs22 The private cloud is defined as computing services offered either over the Internet or a private internal network and only to select users instead of the general public.\par
Ex.   HP Data Centers, Microsoft, Elastra-private cloud, and Ubuntu \par
\fs28 11. What is a public cloud?\par
\fs22 Public cloud is a cloud deployment model where computing resources are owned and operated by a provider and shared across multiple tenants via the Internet.\par
Ex. Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), Microsoft Azure, IBM's Blue Cloud, Sun Cloud, and Google Cloud \par
\fs28 12. What is Hybrid cloud?\par
\fs22 A hybrid cloud is one in which applications are running in a combination of different environments. Hybrid cloud computing approaches are widespread because almost no one today relies entirely on the public cloud.\par
 Ex.  AWS Outposts, Azure Stack, Azure Arc, Google Anthos and VMware Cloud on AWS.\par
\fs28 13. what is Communicty cloud?\par
\fs22 A community cloud in computing is a collaborative effort in which infrastructure is shared between several organizations from a specific community with common concerns, whether managed internally or by a third-party and hosted internally or externally.\par
Ex.  U.S.-based dedicated IBM SoftLayer cloud for federal agencies.\par
\par
\fs36 Importents Links:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://services.google.com/fh/files/misc/state-of-devops-2021.pdf }}{\fldrslt{https://services.google.com/fh/files/misc/state-of-devops-2021.pdf\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs36\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JkxpVLmziIA }}{\fldrslt{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JkxpVLmziIA\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs36\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://aka.ms/download-jdk/microsoft-jdk-11.0.14.1_1-31205-windows-x64.msi }}{\fldrslt{https://aka.ms/download-jdk/microsoft-jdk-11.0.14.1_1-31205-windows-x64.msi\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs36\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://dlcdn.apache.org/tomcat/tomcat-10/v10.0.20/bin/apache-tomcat-10.0.20.exe }}{\fldrslt{https://dlcdn.apache.org/tomcat/tomcat-10/v10.0.20/bin/apache-tomcat-10.0.20.exe\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs36\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://localhost:8080/ }}{\fldrslt{http://localhost:8080/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs36\par
 {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://127.0.0.1:8080/ }}{\fldrslt{http://127.0.0.1:8080/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs36\par
\fs22\lang9\par
}
 